An introduction to the book of Ezra.
The book was written by Ezra,
a priest from the family line of Aaron.
Ezra was a man of faith
who made a diligent study of the Scriptures
and, as a priest, had the responsibility
to teach God’s Word to others.
He was also a skilled copyist,
a job that required
meticulous attention to detail.
This thoroughly researched account
picks up right where he concluded
the book of 2 Chronicles,
following the Jewish captivity in Babylon.
He wrote this book in about 460 B.C.E.
in Jerusalem.
Did you know?
The books of Ezra and Nehemiah
were combined on one scroll?
Later, though, the scroll was divided
into the two books we have
in our Bibles today.
The book of Ezra contains ten chapters.
Chapters 1 through 6 describe the return
of a small group of Jews to Jerusalem.
In 537 B.C.E., they rebuilt the altar
and celebrated the Festival of Booths,
thus ending the 70-year desolation.
In the following year,
the foundation of the temple was laid,
and although opposition
halted the work for a time,
the house of Jehovah
was completed by 515 B.C.E.
In chapters 7 to 10,
we jump forward almost 50 years
to 468 B.C.E.
as Ezra recounts
his own perilous journey to Jerusalem.
Upon arrival, Ezra was shocked
to find that serious sins have taken place
among the Jews.
He approached Jehovah in public prayer,
and action was taken
to restore the spiritual condition
of the people.
As you read the book of Ezra,
take note of how Jehovah
fulfilled his promise
to free his people from exile in Babylon
and to restore true worship in Jerusalem
—important steps
leading to the appearance of the Messiah.